Welcome, in this video, we're going to provide Git with the bare minimum configuration required to do meaningful work.
When you first get started, you can do a handful of commands without configuring Git.
However, before you can make any commits, you need to tell Git about yourself.
I'm currently in my terminal application, and in my user's home directory.
If I list all files here, there is a specific configuration file that Git uses to load it's configuration at the user level,
which is the ".gitconfig" file. We can also ask Git to list its global configuration.
“git”, space, “config”, space, “-- global -- list”. Then press enter.
As expected, Git complains that the ".gitconfig" file is not available, which is true.
Let's set our first entry. “git”, space, “config”, space, -“-global”, space, and then the configuration entry name
user.name, space, followed by the value to set, which in double quotes i put my name "Jason Taylor".
When we press enter, Git will create the ".gitconfig" file for us and put this entry in there. Press enter.
With Git, no news is good news, usually. The other value needed is the user's email address.
so type: “git”, space, “config”, space, “--global”, space, the entry name "user.email",
space, and then the value in double quotes: I’m putting my email address "jason@git.training".
Press enter. Like before we can use the “git config” command to list our global entries.
“git”, space, “config”, space, “--global”, space, “--list”. Press enter.
Git responds with two entries: our user.name and the “user.email”.
Now if we list all the files in our user's home directory, we have our .gitconfig file.
If I use the "cat" command, followed by the file name ".gitconfig", that will echo out the complete file contents of the ".gitconfig" file.
Press enter. Our config file starts with a user section, and then two entries: name and email, with their respective values.